---
name: Vassil Vassilev
ID: vgvassilev
info:
  - github: vgvassilev
  - name: Vassil Vassilev
---

Vassil Vassilev is a seasoned compiler developer with over 12 years of
experience, including more than 6 years in leadership roles. Holding a PhD in
Computing, Vassil views Clang not just as a static compiler but as a versatile
platform supporting the entire C++ ecosystem through advanced tools and
capabilities.

Vassil has contributed to LLVM since 2010. He created Cling, the first fully
featured C++ interpreter, now integral to CERNâ€™s LHC software, enabling the
analysis of exabyte-scale data and contributing to groundbreaking discoveries
such as gravitational waves. He developed Clad, an advanced automatic
differentiation plugin for the Clang compiler, and led the creation of
ClangRepl, enabling interactive, incremental C++ execution in Jupyter and
WebAssembly contexts. Throughout his career, Vassil has tackled a broad spectrum
of compiler challenges, including SIMD optimizations for high-performance
computing and advanced dynamic C++/Python interoperability.

As a code owner in Clang and NB representative in ISOCPP, Vassil has played an
active role in advancing C++ standardization and improving compiler
technologies. He has successfully led globally distributed engineering teams,
collaborated with organizations such as Apple, Intel, IBM, LBL, FNAL, and LLNL,
and managed cross-institutional projects. He hosted a cross-vendor meeting
focused on development and adoption of the C++ modules feature.

Vassil is a strong advocate for community engagement and open-source
collaboration. He has mentored students through programs like Google Summer of
Code, contributed to the development of the new LLVM website, promoted LLVM at
conferences such as PLDI, and chaired the LLVM Dev Meeting program committee.
